# Top-Down-Adventure

A basic game engine built in C++ and SFML designed particularly for top-down adventure games. The TDAHelper engine makes it easy to create interactive tile grid maps, players, enemies, and items, along with support for audio, sprite sheets, and more. Also included in this repo are example games that demo the engine's features.

# Build

This project is set up such that the "TDAHelper" game engine can be loaded in as a separate build from each demo game. Each demo game is also a separate build itself. This makes for 3 separate builds that are best run in their own C++ CMake projects.

For example, using an IDE like CLion or Visual Studio:

- Before opening the IDE, create an empty directory for the engine and an empty directory for each of the demo games.
- In the IDE, create a new C++ CMake build for each of these empty directories, using each as the corresponding build path. Create a Shared Library build for the engine and a standard Executable build for the game demos.
- Pull the code from this repo and copy over the contents to each corresponding build. Ensure that a local copy of SFML is a top-level sibling to the builds.
- If necessary, modify each build's CMakeLists.txt to work with your machine's setup. You may need to change the path specified for the C++ compiler. This project assumes mingw32/64 on a Windows machine.

# Include

This setup has the advantage of modularizing the game engine ("TDAHelper") and making it distinct from each demo game. A game developer desiring to use TDAHelper needs only to `#include` the library after completing the following steps:

- Specify the path where TDAHelper is located on your machine. Do this within the `include_directories` directive within each game's CMakeLists.txt.
- Specify the location of TDAHelper/library.cpp within the `add_library` directive of each game's CMakeLists.txt.
- Link to the library by including TDAHelper within the `target_link_libraries` directive, doing so both for linking SFML with TDAHelper and for linking TDAHelper with the game.
- Then simply write the line `#include <TDAHelper/library.hpp>` where needed in your game.

Constants and methods from TDAHelper will be scoped by the 'td' namespace. TDAHelper includes a full copy of SFML.

# Run

Run each game using the generated Makefile or by using the IDE's run action.

# Documentation

See each demo game for practical examples on how to use TDAHelper. Game1 includes a dungeon crawler example, and Game2 walks through how to remake The World's Hardest Game.

For detailed documentation of the engine's methods, types, and class hierarchy, see https://cse.taylor.edu/~mtoth/COS370/Top-Down-Adventure/index.html. Documentation generated by Doxygen 1.9.1.